CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to OpenClaw

Welcome to the lobster tank! 🦞

## Quick Links

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw
- **Discord:** https://discord.gg/qkhbAGHRBT
- **X/Twitter:** [@steipete](https://x.com/steipete) / [@openclaw](https://x.com/openclaw)

## Maintainers

- **Peter Steinberger** - Benevolent Dictator
  - GitHub: [@steipete](https://github.com/steipete) · X: [@steipete](https://x.com/steipete)

- **Shadow** - Discord subsystem, Discord admin
  - GitHub: [@thewilloftheshadow](https://github.com/thewilloftheshadow) · X: [@4shad0wed](https://x.com/4shad0wed)

- **Vignesh** - Memory (QMD), formal modeling, TUI, IRC, and Lobster
  - GitHub: [@vignesh07](https://github.com/vignesh07) · X: [@\_vgnsh](https://x.com/_vgnsh)

- **Jos** - Telegram, API, Nix mode
  - GitHub: [@joshp123](https://github.com/joshp123) · X: [@jjpcodes](https://x.com/jjpcodes)

- **Ayaan Zaidi** - Telegram subsystem, iOS app
  - GitHub: [@obviyus](https://github.com/obviyus) · X: [@0bviyus](https://x.com/0bviyus)

- **Tyler Yust** - Agents/subagents, cron, BlueBubbles, macOS app
  - GitHub: [@tyler6204](https://github.com/tyler6204) · X: [@tyleryust](https://x.com/tyleryust)

- **Mariano Belinky** - iOS app, Security
  - GitHub: [@mbelinky](https://github.com/mbelinky) · X: [@belimad](https://x.com/belimad)

- **Seb Slight** - Docs, Agent Reliability, Runtime Hardening
  - GitHub: [@sebslight](https://github.com/sebslight) · X: [@sebslig](https://x.com/sebslig)

- **Christoph Nakazawa** - JS Infra
  - GitHub: [@cpojer](https://github.com/cpojer) · X: [@cnakazawa](https://x.com/cnakazawa)

- **Gustavo Madeira Santana** - Multi-agents, CLI, web UI
  - GitHub: [@gumadeiras](https://github.com/gumadeiras) · X: [@gumadeiras](https://x.com/gumadeiras)

## How to Contribute

1. **Bugs & small fixes** → Open a PR!
2. **New features / architecture** → Start a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/discussions) or ask in Discord first
3. **Questions** → Discord #setup-help

## Before You PR

- Test locally with your OpenClaw instance
- Run tests: `pnpm build && pnpm check && pnpm test`
- Ensure CI checks pass
- Keep PRs focused (one thing per PR)
- Describe what & why

## Control UI Decorators

The Control UI uses Lit with **legacy** decorators (current Rollup parsing does not support
`accessor` fields required for standard decorators). When adding reactive fields, keep the
legacy style:

```ts
@state() foo = "bar";
@property({ type: Number }) count = 0;
```

The root `tsconfig.json` is configured for legacy decorators (`experimentalDecorators: true`)
with `useDefineForClassFields: false`. Avoid flipping these unless you are also updating the UI
build tooling to support standard decorators.

## AI/Vibe-Coded PRs Welcome! 🤖

Built with Codex, Claude, or other AI tools? **Awesome - just mark it!**

Please include in your PR:

- [ ] Mark as AI-assisted in the PR title or description
- [ ] Note the degree of testing (untested / lightly tested / fully tested)
- [ ] Include prompts or session logs if possible (super helpful!)
- [ ] Confirm you understand what the code does

AI PRs are first-class citizens here. We just want transparency so reviewers know what to look for.

## Current Focus & Roadmap 🗺

We are currently prioritizing:

- **Stability**: Fixing edge cases in channel connections (WhatsApp/Telegram).
- **UX**: Improving the onboarding wizard and error messages.
- **Skills**: For skill contributions, head to [ClawHub](https://clawhub.ai/) — the community hub for OpenClaw skills.
- **Performance**: Optimizing token usage and compaction logic.

Check the [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/issues) for "good first issue" labels!

## Maintainers

We're looking for dedicated people that want to help maintain OpenClaw.
If you are interested, send an email to [redacted-email] with the following info:

- Link to existing PRs on OpenClaw
- Link to your existing open source projects
- X/Twitter, GitHub and Discord usernames
- Explain your current situation, background, experience, areas of interst
- What languages you speak, what's your current location
- How much time are you willing to spend on this project

We are not necessarily looking only for people that can program;
folks that want to help with docs or even community management are also welcome.

Given the massive popularity of this project, adding maintainers is a slow process.

## Report a Vulnerability

We take security reports seriously. Report vulnerabilities directly to the repository where the issue lives:

- **Core CLI and gateway** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw)
- **macOS desktop app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/macos)
- **iOS app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/ios)
- **Android app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/android)
- **ClawHub** — [openclaw/clawhub](https://github.com/openclaw/clawhub)
- **Trust and threat model** — [openclaw/trust](https://github.com/openclaw/trust)

For issues that don't fit a specific repo, or if you're unsure, email **[redacted-email]** and we'll route it.

### Required in Reports

1. **Title**
2. **Severity Assessment**
3. **Impact**
4. **Affected Component**
5. **Technical Reproduction**
6. **Demonstrated Impact**
7. **Environment**
8. **Remediation Advice**

Reports without reproduction steps, demonstrated impact, and remediation advice will be deprioritized. Given the volume of AI-generated scanner findings, we must ensure we're receiving vetted reports from researchers who understand the issues.

Commit message:

docs: refine maintainer application guidance

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to OpenClaw

Welcome to the lobster tank! 🦞

## Quick Links

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw
- **Discord:** https://discord.gg/qkhbAGHRBT
- **X/Twitter:** [@steipete](https://x.com/steipete) / [@openclaw](https://x.com/openclaw)

## Maintainers

- **Peter Steinberger** - Benevolent Dictator
  - GitHub: [@steipete](https://github.com/steipete) · X: [@steipete](https://x.com/steipete)

- **Shadow** - Discord subsystem, Discord admin
  - GitHub: [@thewilloftheshadow](https://github.com/thewilloftheshadow) · X: [@4shad0wed](https://x.com/4shad0wed)

- **Vignesh** - Memory (QMD), formal modeling, TUI, IRC, and Lobster
  - GitHub: [@vignesh07](https://github.com/vignesh07) · X: [@\_vgnsh](https://x.com/_vgnsh)

- **Jos** - Telegram, API, Nix mode
  - GitHub: [@joshp123](https://github.com/joshp123) · X: [@jjpcodes](https://x.com/jjpcodes)

- **Ayaan Zaidi** - Telegram subsystem, iOS app
  - GitHub: [@obviyus](https://github.com/obviyus) · X: [@0bviyus](https://x.com/0bviyus)

- **Tyler Yust** - Agents/subagents, cron, BlueBubbles, macOS app
  - GitHub: [@tyler6204](https://github.com/tyler6204) · X: [@tyleryust](https://x.com/tyleryust)

- **Mariano Belinky** - iOS app, Security
  - GitHub: [@mbelinky](https://github.com/mbelinky) · X: [@belimad](https://x.com/belimad)

- **Seb Slight** - Docs, Agent Reliability, Runtime Hardening
  - GitHub: [@sebslight](https://github.com/sebslight) · X: [@sebslig](https://x.com/sebslig)

- **Christoph Nakazawa** - JS Infra
  - GitHub: [@cpojer](https://github.com/cpojer) · X: [@cnakazawa](https://x.com/cnakazawa)

- **Gustavo Madeira Santana** - Multi-agents, CLI, web UI
  - GitHub: [@gumadeiras](https://github.com/gumadeiras) · X: [@gumadeiras](https://x.com/gumadeiras)

## How to Contribute

1. **Bugs & small fixes** → Open a PR!
2. **New features / architecture** → Start a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/discussions) or ask in Discord first
3. **Questions** → Discord #setup-help

## Before You PR

- Test locally with your OpenClaw instance
- Run tests: `pnpm build && pnpm check && pnpm test`
- Ensure CI checks pass
- Keep PRs focused (one thing per PR)
- Describe what & why

## Control UI Decorators

The Control UI uses Lit with **legacy** decorators (current Rollup parsing does not support
`accessor` fields required for standard decorators). When adding reactive fields, keep the
legacy style:

```ts
@state() foo = "bar";
@property({ type: Number }) count = 0;
```

The root `tsconfig.json` is configured for legacy decorators (`experimentalDecorators: true`)
with `useDefineForClassFields: false`. Avoid flipping these unless you are also updating the UI
build tooling to support standard decorators.

## AI/Vibe-Coded PRs Welcome! 🤖

Built with Codex, Claude, or other AI tools? **Awesome - just mark it!**

Please include in your PR:

- [ ] Mark as AI-assisted in the PR title or description
- [ ] Note the degree of testing (untested / lightly tested / fully tested)
- [ ] Include prompts or session logs if possible (super helpful!)
- [ ] Confirm you understand what the code does

AI PRs are first-class citizens here. We just want transparency so reviewers know what to look for.

## Current Focus & Roadmap 🗺

We are currently prioritizing:

- **Stability**: Fixing edge cases in channel connections (WhatsApp/Telegram).
- **UX**: Improving the onboarding wizard and error messages.
- **Skills**: For skill contributions, head to [ClawHub](https://clawhub.ai/) — the community hub for OpenClaw skills.
- **Performance**: Optimizing token usage and compaction logic.

Check the [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/issues) for "good first issue" labels!

## Maintainers

We're selectively expanding the maintainer team.
If you're an experienced contributor who wants to help shape OpenClaw's direction — whether through code, docs, or community — we'd like to hear from you.

Being a maintainer is a responsibility, not an honorary title. We expect active, consistent involvement — triaging issues, reviewing PRs, and helping move the project forward.

Still interested? Email [redacted-email] with:

- Links to your PRs on OpenClaw (if you don't have any, start there first)
- Links to open source projects you maintain or actively contribute to
- Your GitHub, Discord, and X/Twitter handles
- A brief intro: background, experience, and areas of interest
- Languages you speak and where you're based
- How much time you can realistically commit

We welcome people across all skill sets — engineering, documentation, community management, and more.
We review every human-only-written application carefully and add maintainers slowly and deliberately.
Please allow a few weeks for a response.

## Report a Vulnerability

We take security reports seriously. Report vulnerabilities directly to the repository where the issue lives:

- **Core CLI and gateway** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw)
- **macOS desktop app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/macos)
- **iOS app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/ios)
- **Android app** — [openclaw/openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw) (apps/android)
- **ClawHub** — [openclaw/clawhub](https://github.com/openclaw/clawhub)
- **Trust and threat model** — [openclaw/trust](https://github.com/openclaw/trust)

For issues that don't fit a specific repo, or if you're unsure, email **[redacted-email]** and we'll route it.

### Required in Reports

1. **Title**
2. **Severity Assessment**
3. **Impact**
4. **Affected Component**
5. **Technical Reproduction**
6. **Demonstrated Impact**
7. **Environment**
8. **Remediation Advice**

Reports without reproduction steps, demonstrated impact, and remediation advice will be deprioritized. Given the volume of AI-generated scanner findings, we must ensure we're receiving vetted reports from researchers who understand the issues.
