skills/weather/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: weather
description: Get current weather and forecasts (no API key required).
homepage: https://wttr.in/:help
metadata: { "openclaw": { "emoji": "🌤️", "requires": { "bins": ["curl"] } } }
---

# Weather Skill

Get current weather conditions and forecasts.

## When to Use

✅ **USE this skill when:**

- "What's the weather?"
- "Will it rain today/tomorrow?"
- "Temperature in [city]"
- "Weather forecast for the week"
- Travel planning weather checks

## When NOT to Use

❌ **DON'T use this skill when:**

- Historical weather data → use weather archives/APIs
- Climate analysis or trends → use specialized data sources
- Hyper-local microclimate data → use local sensors
- Severe weather alerts → check official NWS sources
- Aviation/marine weather → use specialized services (METAR, etc.)

## Location

Always include a city, region, or airport code in weather queries.

## Commands

### Current Weather

```bash
# One-line summary
curl "wttr.in/London?format=3"

# Detailed current conditions
curl "wttr.in/London?0"

# Specific city
curl "wttr.in/New+York?format=3"
```

### Forecasts

```bash
# 3-day forecast
curl "wttr.in/London"

# Week forecast
curl "wttr.in/London?format=v2"

# Specific day (0=today, 1=tomorrow, 2=day after)
curl "wttr.in/London?1"
```

### Format Options

```bash
# One-liner
curl "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%t+%w"

# JSON output
curl "wttr.in/London?format=j1"

# PNG image
curl "wttr.in/London.png"
```

### Format Codes

- `%c` — Weather condition emoji
- `%t` — Temperature
- `%f` — "Feels like"
- `%w` — Wind
- `%h` — Humidity
- `%p` — Precipitation
- `%l` — Location

## Quick Responses

**"What's the weather?"**

```bash
curl -s "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%t+(feels+like+%f),+%w+wind,+%h+humidity"
```

**"Will it rain?"**

```bash
curl -s "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%p"
```

**"Weekend forecast"**

```bash
curl "wttr.in/London?format=v2"
```

## Notes

- No API key needed (uses wttr.in)
- Rate limited; don't spam requests
- Works for most global cities
- Supports airport codes: `curl wttr.in/ORD`

Commit message:

feat(skills): improve descriptions with routing logic (#14577)
* feat(skills): improve descriptions with routing logic

Apply OpenAI's recommended pattern for skill descriptions:
- Add 'Use when' conditions for clear triggering
- Add 'NOT for' negative examples to reduce misfires
- Make descriptions act as routing logic, not marketing copy

Based on: https://developers.openai.com/blog/skills-shell-tips/

Skills updated:
- coding-agent: clarify when to delegate vs direct edit
- github: add boundaries vs browser/scripting
- weather: add scope limitations

Glean reported 20% drop in skill triggering without negative
examples, recovering after adding them. This change brings
Clawdbot skills in line with that pattern.

* docs(skills): clarify routing boundaries (openclaw#14577) (thanks @DylanWoodAkers)

* docs(changelog): add PR 14577 release note (openclaw#14577) (thanks @DylanWoodAkers)

---------

Co-authored-by: ClawdBotWolf <clawdbotwolf@proton.me>
Co-authored-by: Peter Steinberger <steipete@gmail.com>

skills/weather/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: weather
description: "Get current weather and forecasts via wttr.in or Open-Meteo. Use when: user asks about weather, temperature, or forecasts for any location. NOT for: historical weather data, severe weather alerts, or detailed meteorological analysis. No API key needed."
homepage: https://wttr.in/:help
metadata: { "openclaw": { "emoji": "🌤️", "requires": { "bins": ["curl"] } } }
---

# Weather Skill

Get current weather conditions and forecasts.

## When to Use

✅ **USE this skill when:**

- "What's the weather?"
- "Will it rain today/tomorrow?"
- "Temperature in [city]"
- "Weather forecast for the week"
- Travel planning weather checks

## When NOT to Use

❌ **DON'T use this skill when:**

- Historical weather data → use weather archives/APIs
- Climate analysis or trends → use specialized data sources
- Hyper-local microclimate data → use local sensors
- Severe weather alerts → check official NWS sources
- Aviation/marine weather → use specialized services (METAR, etc.)

## Location

Always include a city, region, or airport code in weather queries.

## Commands

### Current Weather

```bash
# One-line summary
curl "wttr.in/London?format=3"

# Detailed current conditions
curl "wttr.in/London?0"

# Specific city
curl "wttr.in/New+York?format=3"
```

### Forecasts

```bash
# 3-day forecast
curl "wttr.in/London"

# Week forecast
curl "wttr.in/London?format=v2"

# Specific day (0=today, 1=tomorrow, 2=day after)
curl "wttr.in/London?1"
```

### Format Options

```bash
# One-liner
curl "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%t+%w"

# JSON output
curl "wttr.in/London?format=j1"

# PNG image
curl "wttr.in/London.png"
```

### Format Codes

- `%c` — Weather condition emoji
- `%t` — Temperature
- `%f` — "Feels like"
- `%w` — Wind
- `%h` — Humidity
- `%p` — Precipitation
- `%l` — Location

## Quick Responses

**"What's the weather?"**

```bash
curl -s "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%t+(feels+like+%f),+%w+wind,+%h+humidity"
```

**"Will it rain?"**

```bash
curl -s "wttr.in/London?format=%l:+%c+%p"
```

**"Weekend forecast"**

```bash
curl "wttr.in/London?format=v2"
```

## Notes

- No API key needed (uses wttr.in)
- Rate limited; don't spam requests
- Works for most global cities
- Supports airport codes: `curl wttr.in/ORD`
