docs/channels/groups.md, before:

---
summary: "Group chat behavior across surfaces (WhatsApp/Telegram/Discord/Slack/Signal/iMessage/Microsoft Teams)"
read_when:
  - Changing group chat behavior or mention gating
title: "Groups"
---

# Groups

OpenClaw treats group chats consistently across surfaces: WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, Slack, Signal, iMessage, Microsoft Teams.

## Beginner intro (2 minutes)

OpenClaw “lives” on your own messaging accounts. There is no separate WhatsApp bot user.
If **you** are in a group, OpenClaw can see that group and respond there.

Default behavior:

- Groups are restricted (`groupPolicy: "allowlist"`).
- Replies require a mention unless you explicitly disable mention gating.

Translation: allowlisted senders can trigger OpenClaw by mentioning it.

> TL;DR
>
> - **DM access** is controlled by `*.allowFrom`.
> - **Group access** is controlled by `*.groupPolicy` + allowlists (`*.groups`, `*.groupAllowFrom`).
> - **Reply triggering** is controlled by mention gating (`requireMention`, `/activation`).

Quick flow (what happens to a group message):

```
groupPolicy? disabled -> drop
groupPolicy? allowlist ->
  groups config has entries? ->
    yes -> group JID in groups? no -> drop
    no  -> sender in groupAllowFrom? no -> drop
requireMention? yes -> mentioned? no -> store for context only
is slash command? -> sender in groupAllowFrom? no -> reject command
otherwise -> reply
```

![Group message flow](/images/groups-flow.svg)

If you want...

| Goal                                         | What to set                                                |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Allow all groups but only reply on @mentions | `groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } }`                |
| Disable all group replies                    | `groupPolicy: "disabled"`                                  |
| Only specific groups                         | `groups: { "<group-id>": { ... } }` (no `"*"` key)         |
| Only you can trigger in groups               | `groupPolicy: "allowlist"`, `groupAllowFrom: ["+1555..."]` |

## Session keys

- Group sessions use `agent:<agentId>:<channel>:group:<id>` session keys (rooms/channels use `agent:<agentId>:<channel>:channel:<id>`).
- Telegram forum topics add `:topic:<threadId>` to the group id so each topic has its own session.
- Direct chats use the main session (or per-sender if configured).
- Heartbeats are skipped for group sessions.

## Pattern: personal DMs + public groups (single agent)

Yes — this works well if your “personal” traffic is **DMs** and your “public” traffic is **groups**.

Why: in single-agent mode, DMs typically land in the **main** session key (`agent:main:main`), while groups always use **non-main** session keys (`agent:main:<channel>:group:<id>`). If you enable sandboxing with `mode: "non-main"`, those group sessions run in Docker while your main DM session stays on-host.

This gives you one agent “brain” (shared workspace + memory), but two execution postures:

- **DMs**: full tools (host)
- **Groups**: sandbox + restricted tools (Docker)

> If you need truly separate workspaces/personas (“personal” and “public” must never mix), use a second agent + bindings. See [Multi-Agent Routing](/concepts/multi-agent).

Example (DMs on host, groups sandboxed + messaging-only tools):

```json5
{
  agents: {
    defaults: {
      sandbox: {
        mode: "non-main", // groups/channels are non-main -> sandboxed
        scope: "session", // strongest isolation (one container per group/channel)
        workspaceAccess: "none",
      },
    },
  },
  tools: {
    sandbox: {
      tools: {
        // If allow is non-empty, everything else is blocked (deny still wins).
        allow: ["group:messaging", "group:sessions"],
        deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "group:ui", "nodes", "cron", "gateway"],
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Want “groups can only see folder X” instead of “no host access”? Keep `workspaceAccess: "none"` and mount only allowlisted paths into the sandbox:

```json5
{
  agents: {
    defaults: {
      sandbox: {
        mode: "non-main",
        scope: "session",
        workspaceAccess: "none",
        docker: {
          binds: [
            // hostPath:containerPath:mode
            "/home/user/FriendsShared:/data:ro",
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Related:

- Configuration keys and defaults: [Gateway configuration](/gateway/configuration#agentsdefaultssandbox)
- Debugging why a tool is blocked: [Sandbox vs Tool Policy vs Elevated](/gateway/sandbox-vs-tool-policy-vs-elevated)
- Bind mounts details: [Sandboxing](/gateway/sandboxing#custom-bind-mounts)

## Display labels

- UI labels use `displayName` when available, formatted as `<channel>:<token>`.
- `#room` is reserved for rooms/channels; group chats use `g-<slug>` (lowercase, spaces -> `-`, keep `#@+._-`).

## Group policy

Control how group/room messages are handled per channel:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled", // "open" | "disabled" | "allowlist"
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
    },
    telegram: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["123456789"], // numeric Telegram user id (wizard can resolve @username)
    },
    signal: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
    },
    imessage: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["chat_id:123"],
    },
    msteams: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["user@org.com"],
    },
    discord: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      guilds: {
        GUILD_ID: { channels: { help: { allow: true } } },
      },
    },
    slack: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      channels: { "#general": { allow: true } },
    },
    matrix: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["@owner:example.org"],
      groups: {
        "!roomId:example.org": { allow: true },
        "#alias:example.org": { allow: true },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

| Policy        | Behavior                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"open"`      | Groups bypass allowlists; mention-gating still applies.      |
| `"disabled"`  | Block all group messages entirely.                           |
| `"allowlist"` | Only allow groups/rooms that match the configured allowlist. |

Notes:

- `groupPolicy` is separate from mention-gating (which requires @mentions).
- WhatsApp/Telegram/Signal/iMessage/Microsoft Teams: use `groupAllowFrom` (fallback: explicit `allowFrom`).
- Discord: allowlist uses `channels.discord.guilds.<id>.channels`.
- Slack: allowlist uses `channels.slack.channels`.
- Matrix: allowlist uses `channels.matrix.groups` (room IDs, aliases, or names). Use `channels.matrix.groupAllowFrom` to restrict senders; per-room `users` allowlists are also supported.
- Group DMs are controlled separately (`channels.discord.dm.*`, `channels.slack.dm.*`).
- Telegram allowlist can match user IDs (`"123456789"`, `"telegram:123456789"`, `"tg:123456789"`) or usernames (`"@alice"` or `"alice"`); prefixes are case-insensitive.
- Default is `groupPolicy: "allowlist"`; if your group allowlist is empty, group messages are blocked.
- Runtime safety: when a provider block is completely missing (`channels.<provider>` absent), group policy falls back to a fail-closed mode (typically `allowlist`) instead of inheriting `channels.defaults.groupPolicy`.

Quick mental model (evaluation order for group messages):

1. `groupPolicy` (open/disabled/allowlist)
2. group allowlists (`*.groups`, `*.groupAllowFrom`, channel-specific allowlist)
3. mention gating (`requireMention`, `/activation`)

## Mention gating (default)

Group messages require a mention unless overridden per group. Defaults live per subsystem under `*.groups."*"`.

Replying to a bot message counts as an implicit mention (when the channel supports reply metadata). This applies to Telegram, WhatsApp, Slack, Discord, and Microsoft Teams.

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123@g.us": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
    telegram: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123456789": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
    imessage: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
  },
  agents: {
    list: [
      {
        id: "main",
        groupChat: {
          mentionPatterns: ["@openclaw", "openclaw", "\\+15555550123"],
          historyLimit: 50,
        },
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Notes:

- `mentionPatterns` are case-insensitive regexes.
- Surfaces that provide explicit mentions still pass; patterns are a fallback.
- Per-agent override: `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` (useful when multiple agents share a group).
- Mention gating is only enforced when mention detection is possible (native mentions or `mentionPatterns` are configured).
- Discord defaults live in `channels.discord.guilds."*"` (overridable per guild/channel).
- Group history context is wrapped uniformly across channels and is **pending-only** (messages skipped due to mention gating); use `messages.groupChat.historyLimit` for the global default and `channels.<channel>.historyLimit` (or `channels.<channel>.accounts.*.historyLimit`) for overrides. Set `0` to disable.

## Group/channel tool restrictions (optional)

Some channel configs support restricting which tools are available **inside a specific group/room/channel**.

- `tools`: allow/deny tools for the whole group.
- `toolsBySender`: per-sender overrides within the group.
  Use explicit key prefixes:
  `id:<senderId>`, `e164:<phone>`, `username:<handle>`, `name:<displayName>`, and `"*"` wildcard.
  Legacy unprefixed keys are still accepted and matched as `id:` only.

Resolution order (most specific wins):

1. group/channel `toolsBySender` match
2. group/channel `tools`
3. default (`"*"`) `toolsBySender` match
4. default (`"*"`) `tools`

Example (Telegram):

```json5
{
  channels: {
    telegram: {
      groups: {
        "*": { tools: { deny: ["exec"] } },
        "-1001234567890": {
          tools: { deny: ["exec", "read", "write"] },
          toolsBySender: {
            "id:123456789": { alsoAllow: ["exec"] },
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Notes:

- Group/channel tool restrictions are applied in addition to global/agent tool policy (deny still wins).
- Some channels use different nesting for rooms/channels (e.g., Discord `guilds.*.channels.*`, Slack `channels.*`, MS Teams `teams.*.channels.*`).

## Group allowlists

When `channels.whatsapp.groups`, `channels.telegram.groups`, or `channels.imessage.groups` is configured, the keys act as a group allowlist. Use `"*"` to allow all groups while still setting default mention behavior.

Common intents (copy/paste):

1. Disable all group replies

```json5
{
  channels: { whatsapp: { groupPolicy: "disabled" } },
}
```

2. Allow only specific groups (WhatsApp)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "123@g.us": { requireMention: true },
        "456@g.us": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

3. Allow all groups but require mention (explicit)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } },
    },
  },
}
```

4. Only the owner can trigger in groups (WhatsApp)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
      groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } },
    },
  },
}
```

5. Approved groups + anyone chats + only owner runs slash commands

When `groupPolicy: "allowlist"` and `groups` has specific group JID entries (not just `"*"`), the group JIDs act as a **group allowlist**: only those groups are allowed, but **anyone** in an approved group can chat. `groupAllowFrom` then only controls who can run **slash commands** (like `/activation`, `/config`, etc.) — it no longer gates regular messages.

When no `groups` entries exist (or only `"*"` is present), it falls back to the old behavior where `groupAllowFrom` gates all message access.

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+16164259884"],
      groups: {
        "group1@g.us": { requireMention: false },
        "group2@g.us": { requireMention: true },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

In this example: only `group1@g.us` and `group2@g.us` are allowed. Anyone in those groups can chat with the bot (subject to mention gating). Only `+16164259884` can use slash commands like `/activation`.

## Activation (owner-only)

Group owners can toggle per-group activation:

- `/activation mention`
- `/activation always`

Owner is determined by `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom` (or the bot’s self E.164 when unset). Send the command as a standalone message. Other surfaces currently ignore `/activation`.

## Context fields

Group inbound payloads set:

- `ChatType=group`
- `GroupSubject` (if known)
- `GroupMembers` (if known)
- `WasMentioned` (mention gating result)
- Telegram forum topics also include `MessageThreadId` and `IsForum`.

The agent system prompt includes a group intro on the first turn of a new group session. It reminds the model to respond like a human, avoid Markdown tables, and avoid typing literal `\n` sequences.

## iMessage specifics

- Prefer `chat_id:<id>` when routing or allowlisting.
- List chats: `imsg chats --limit 20`.
- Group replies always go back to the same `chat_id`.

## WhatsApp specifics

See [Group messages](/channels/group-messages) for WhatsApp-only behavior (history injection, mention handling details).

Commit message:

docs: add warning callouts for groupAllowFrom + incorporate #3326 fix
- Add ⚠️ callouts in groups.md and whatsapp.md clarifying that
  groupAllowFrom expects phone numbers (not group JIDs) and is a
  sender filter for commands, not a group filter
- Incorporate fix from #3326: only enable group allowlist when
  groupPolicy is explicitly 'allowlist', preventing implicit
  allowlist when groups config coexists with groupPolicy: 'open'

docs/channels/groups.md, after:

---
summary: "Group chat behavior across surfaces (WhatsApp/Telegram/Discord/Slack/Signal/iMessage/Microsoft Teams)"
read_when:
  - Changing group chat behavior or mention gating
title: "Groups"
---

# Groups

OpenClaw treats group chats consistently across surfaces: WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, Slack, Signal, iMessage, Microsoft Teams.

## Beginner intro (2 minutes)

OpenClaw “lives” on your own messaging accounts. There is no separate WhatsApp bot user.
If **you** are in a group, OpenClaw can see that group and respond there.

Default behavior:

- Groups are restricted (`groupPolicy: "allowlist"`).
- Replies require a mention unless you explicitly disable mention gating.

Translation: allowlisted senders can trigger OpenClaw by mentioning it.

> TL;DR
>
> - **DM access** is controlled by `*.allowFrom`.
> - **Group access** is controlled by `*.groupPolicy` + allowlists (`*.groups`, `*.groupAllowFrom`).
> - **Reply triggering** is controlled by mention gating (`requireMention`, `/activation`).

Quick flow (what happens to a group message):

```
groupPolicy? disabled -> drop
groupPolicy? allowlist ->
  groups config has entries? ->
    yes -> group JID in groups? no -> drop
    no  -> sender in groupAllowFrom? no -> drop
requireMention? yes -> mentioned? no -> store for context only
is slash command? -> sender in groupAllowFrom? no -> reject command
otherwise -> reply
```

![Group message flow](/images/groups-flow.svg)

If you want...

| Goal                                         | What to set                                                |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| Allow all groups but only reply on @mentions | `groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } }`                |
| Disable all group replies                    | `groupPolicy: "disabled"`                                  |
| Only specific groups                         | `groups: { "<group-id>": { ... } }` (no `"*"` key)         |
| Only you can trigger in groups               | `groupPolicy: "allowlist"`, `groupAllowFrom: ["+1555..."]` |

## Session keys

- Group sessions use `agent:<agentId>:<channel>:group:<id>` session keys (rooms/channels use `agent:<agentId>:<channel>:channel:<id>`).
- Telegram forum topics add `:topic:<threadId>` to the group id so each topic has its own session.
- Direct chats use the main session (or per-sender if configured).
- Heartbeats are skipped for group sessions.

## Pattern: personal DMs + public groups (single agent)

Yes — this works well if your “personal” traffic is **DMs** and your “public” traffic is **groups**.

Why: in single-agent mode, DMs typically land in the **main** session key (`agent:main:main`), while groups always use **non-main** session keys (`agent:main:<channel>:group:<id>`). If you enable sandboxing with `mode: "non-main"`, those group sessions run in Docker while your main DM session stays on-host.

This gives you one agent “brain” (shared workspace + memory), but two execution postures:

- **DMs**: full tools (host)
- **Groups**: sandbox + restricted tools (Docker)

> If you need truly separate workspaces/personas (“personal” and “public” must never mix), use a second agent + bindings. See [Multi-Agent Routing](/concepts/multi-agent).

Example (DMs on host, groups sandboxed + messaging-only tools):

```json5
{
  agents: {
    defaults: {
      sandbox: {
        mode: "non-main", // groups/channels are non-main -> sandboxed
        scope: "session", // strongest isolation (one container per group/channel)
        workspaceAccess: "none",
      },
    },
  },
  tools: {
    sandbox: {
      tools: {
        // If allow is non-empty, everything else is blocked (deny still wins).
        allow: ["group:messaging", "group:sessions"],
        deny: ["group:runtime", "group:fs", "group:ui", "nodes", "cron", "gateway"],
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Want “groups can only see folder X” instead of “no host access”? Keep `workspaceAccess: "none"` and mount only allowlisted paths into the sandbox:

```json5
{
  agents: {
    defaults: {
      sandbox: {
        mode: "non-main",
        scope: "session",
        workspaceAccess: "none",
        docker: {
          binds: [
            // hostPath:containerPath:mode
            "/home/user/FriendsShared:/data:ro",
          ],
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Related:

- Configuration keys and defaults: [Gateway configuration](/gateway/configuration#agentsdefaultssandbox)
- Debugging why a tool is blocked: [Sandbox vs Tool Policy vs Elevated](/gateway/sandbox-vs-tool-policy-vs-elevated)
- Bind mounts details: [Sandboxing](/gateway/sandboxing#custom-bind-mounts)

## Display labels

- UI labels use `displayName` when available, formatted as `<channel>:<token>`.
- `#room` is reserved for rooms/channels; group chats use `g-<slug>` (lowercase, spaces -> `-`, keep `#@+._-`).

## Group policy

> ⚠️ **Common mistake:** `groupAllowFrom` expects **phone numbers** (e.g., `"+15551234567"`), not group JIDs. To allowlist specific groups, use the `groups` config with group JIDs as keys (e.g., `"my-group@g.us": {}`). Putting a group JID in `groupAllowFrom` will silently fail to match anything.

Control how group/room messages are handled per channel:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled", // "open" | "disabled" | "allowlist"
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
    },
    telegram: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["123456789"], // numeric Telegram user id (wizard can resolve @username)
    },
    signal: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
    },
    imessage: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["chat_id:123"],
    },
    msteams: {
      groupPolicy: "disabled",
      groupAllowFrom: ["user@org.com"],
    },
    discord: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      guilds: {
        GUILD_ID: { channels: { help: { allow: true } } },
      },
    },
    slack: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      channels: { "#general": { allow: true } },
    },
    matrix: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["@owner:example.org"],
      groups: {
        "!roomId:example.org": { allow: true },
        "#alias:example.org": { allow: true },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

| Policy        | Behavior                                                     |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `"open"`      | Groups bypass allowlists; mention-gating still applies.      |
| `"disabled"`  | Block all group messages entirely.                           |
| `"allowlist"` | Only allow groups/rooms that match the configured allowlist. |

Notes:

- `groupPolicy` is separate from mention-gating (which requires @mentions).
- WhatsApp/Telegram/Signal/iMessage/Microsoft Teams: use `groupAllowFrom` (fallback: explicit `allowFrom`).
- Discord: allowlist uses `channels.discord.guilds.<id>.channels`.
- Slack: allowlist uses `channels.slack.channels`.
- Matrix: allowlist uses `channels.matrix.groups` (room IDs, aliases, or names). Use `channels.matrix.groupAllowFrom` to restrict senders; per-room `users` allowlists are also supported.
- Group DMs are controlled separately (`channels.discord.dm.*`, `channels.slack.dm.*`).
- Telegram allowlist can match user IDs (`"123456789"`, `"telegram:123456789"`, `"tg:123456789"`) or usernames (`"@alice"` or `"alice"`); prefixes are case-insensitive.
- Default is `groupPolicy: "allowlist"`; if your group allowlist is empty, group messages are blocked.
- Runtime safety: when a provider block is completely missing (`channels.<provider>` absent), group policy falls back to a fail-closed mode (typically `allowlist`) instead of inheriting `channels.defaults.groupPolicy`.

Quick mental model (evaluation order for group messages):

1. `groupPolicy` (open/disabled/allowlist)
2. group allowlists (`*.groups`, `*.groupAllowFrom`, channel-specific allowlist)
3. mention gating (`requireMention`, `/activation`)

## Mention gating (default)

Group messages require a mention unless overridden per group. Defaults live per subsystem under `*.groups."*"`.

Replying to a bot message counts as an implicit mention (when the channel supports reply metadata). This applies to Telegram, WhatsApp, Slack, Discord, and Microsoft Teams.

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123@g.us": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
    telegram: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123456789": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
    imessage: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
        "123": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
  },
  agents: {
    list: [
      {
        id: "main",
        groupChat: {
          mentionPatterns: ["@openclaw", "openclaw", "\\+15555550123"],
          historyLimit: 50,
        },
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Notes:

- `mentionPatterns` are case-insensitive regexes.
- Surfaces that provide explicit mentions still pass; patterns are a fallback.
- Per-agent override: `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` (useful when multiple agents share a group).
- Mention gating is only enforced when mention detection is possible (native mentions or `mentionPatterns` are configured).
- Discord defaults live in `channels.discord.guilds."*"` (overridable per guild/channel).
- Group history context is wrapped uniformly across channels and is **pending-only** (messages skipped due to mention gating); use `messages.groupChat.historyLimit` for the global default and `channels.<channel>.historyLimit` (or `channels.<channel>.accounts.*.historyLimit`) for overrides. Set `0` to disable.

## Group/channel tool restrictions (optional)

Some channel configs support restricting which tools are available **inside a specific group/room/channel**.

- `tools`: allow/deny tools for the whole group.
- `toolsBySender`: per-sender overrides within the group.
  Use explicit key prefixes:
  `id:<senderId>`, `e164:<phone>`, `username:<handle>`, `name:<displayName>`, and `"*"` wildcard.
  Legacy unprefixed keys are still accepted and matched as `id:` only.

Resolution order (most specific wins):

1. group/channel `toolsBySender` match
2. group/channel `tools`
3. default (`"*"`) `toolsBySender` match
4. default (`"*"`) `tools`

Example (Telegram):

```json5
{
  channels: {
    telegram: {
      groups: {
        "*": { tools: { deny: ["exec"] } },
        "-1001234567890": {
          tools: { deny: ["exec", "read", "write"] },
          toolsBySender: {
            "id:123456789": { alsoAllow: ["exec"] },
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

Notes:

- Group/channel tool restrictions are applied in addition to global/agent tool policy (deny still wins).
- Some channels use different nesting for rooms/channels (e.g., Discord `guilds.*.channels.*`, Slack `channels.*`, MS Teams `teams.*.channels.*`).

## Group allowlists

When `channels.whatsapp.groups`, `channels.telegram.groups`, or `channels.imessage.groups` is configured, the keys act as a group allowlist. Use `"*"` to allow all groups while still setting default mention behavior.

Common intents (copy/paste):

1. Disable all group replies

```json5
{
  channels: { whatsapp: { groupPolicy: "disabled" } },
}
```

2. Allow only specific groups (WhatsApp)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "123@g.us": { requireMention: true },
        "456@g.us": { requireMention: false },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

3. Allow all groups but require mention (explicit)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } },
    },
  },
}
```

4. Only the owner can trigger in groups (WhatsApp)

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+15551234567"],
      groups: { "*": { requireMention: true } },
    },
  },
}
```

5. Approved groups + anyone chats + only owner runs slash commands

When `groupPolicy: "allowlist"` and `groups` has specific group JID entries (not just `"*"`), the group JIDs act as a **group allowlist**: only those groups are allowed, but **anyone** in an approved group can chat. `groupAllowFrom` then only controls who can run **slash commands** (like `/activation`, `/config`, etc.) — it no longer gates regular messages.

When no `groups` entries exist (or only `"*"` is present), it falls back to the old behavior where `groupAllowFrom` gates all message access.

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groupPolicy: "allowlist",
      groupAllowFrom: ["+16164259884"],
      groups: {
        "group1@g.us": { requireMention: false },
        "group2@g.us": { requireMention: true },
      },
    },
  },
}
```

In this example: only `group1@g.us` and `group2@g.us` are allowed. Anyone in those groups can chat with the bot (subject to mention gating). Only `+16164259884` can use slash commands like `/activation`.

## Activation (owner-only)

Group owners can toggle per-group activation:

- `/activation mention`
- `/activation always`

Owner is determined by `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom` (or the bot’s self E.164 when unset). Send the command as a standalone message. Other surfaces currently ignore `/activation`.

## Context fields

Group inbound payloads set:

- `ChatType=group`
- `GroupSubject` (if known)
- `GroupMembers` (if known)
- `WasMentioned` (mention gating result)
- Telegram forum topics also include `MessageThreadId` and `IsForum`.

The agent system prompt includes a group intro on the first turn of a new group session. It reminds the model to respond like a human, avoid Markdown tables, and avoid typing literal `\n` sequences.

## iMessage specifics

- Prefer `chat_id:<id>` when routing or allowlisting.
- List chats: `imsg chats --limit 20`.
- Group replies always go back to the same `chat_id`.

## WhatsApp specifics

See [Group messages](/channels/group-messages) for WhatsApp-only behavior (history injection, mention handling details).
