docs/tools/exec.md, before:

---
summary: "Exec tool usage, stdin modes, and TTY support"
read_when:
  - Using or modifying the exec tool
  - Debugging stdin or TTY behavior
---

# Exec tool

Run shell commands in the workspace. Supports foreground + background execution via `process`.
If `process` is disallowed, `exec` runs synchronously and ignores `yieldMs`/`background`.
Background sessions are scoped per agent; `process` only sees sessions from the same agent.

## Parameters

- `command` (required)
- `yieldMs` (default 10000): auto-background after delay
- `background` (bool): background immediately
- `timeout` (seconds, default 1800): kill on expiry
- `pty` (bool): run in a pseudo-terminal when available (TTY-only CLIs, coding agents, terminal UIs)
- `elevated` (bool): run on host if elevated mode is enabled/allowed (only changes behavior when the agent is sandboxed)
- Need a fully interactive session? Use `pty: true` and the `process` tool for stdin/output.
Note: `elevated` is ignored when sandboxing is off (exec already runs on the host).

## Config

- `tools.exec.notifyOnExit` (default: true): when true, backgrounded exec sessions enqueue a system event and request a heartbeat on exit.

## Examples

Foreground:
```json
{"tool":"exec","command":"ls -la"}
```

Background + poll:
```json
{"tool":"exec","command":"npm run build","yieldMs":1000}
{"tool":"process","action":"poll","sessionId":"<id>"}
```

Send keys (tmux-style):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["Enter"]}
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["C-c"]}
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["Up","Up","Enter"]}
```

Submit (send CR only):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"submit","sessionId":"<id>"}
```

Paste (bracketed by default):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"paste","sessionId":"<id>","text":"line1\nline2\n"}
```

## apply_patch (experimental)

`apply_patch` is a subtool of `exec` for structured multi-file edits.
Enable it explicitly:

```json5
{
  tools: {
    exec: {
      applyPatch: { enabled: true, allowModels: ["gpt-5.2"] }
    }
  }
}
```

Notes:
- Only available for OpenAI/OpenAI Codex models.
- Tool policy still applies; `allow: ["exec"]` implicitly allows `apply_patch`.
- Config lives under `tools.exec.applyPatch`.

Commit message:

feat: add exec approvals allowlists

docs/tools/exec.md, after:

---
summary: "Exec tool usage, stdin modes, and TTY support"
read_when:
  - Using or modifying the exec tool
  - Debugging stdin or TTY behavior
---

# Exec tool

Run shell commands in the workspace. Supports foreground + background execution via `process`.
If `process` is disallowed, `exec` runs synchronously and ignores `yieldMs`/`background`.
Background sessions are scoped per agent; `process` only sees sessions from the same agent.

## Parameters

- `command` (required)
- `yieldMs` (default 10000): auto-background after delay
- `background` (bool): background immediately
- `timeout` (seconds, default 1800): kill on expiry
- `pty` (bool): run in a pseudo-terminal when available (TTY-only CLIs, coding agents, terminal UIs)
- `elevated` (bool): run on host if elevated mode is enabled/allowed (only changes behavior when the agent is sandboxed)
- Need a fully interactive session? Use `pty: true` and the `process` tool for stdin/output.
Note: `elevated` is ignored when sandboxing is off (exec already runs on the host).

## Config

- `tools.exec.notifyOnExit` (default: true): when true, backgrounded exec sessions enqueue a system event and request a heartbeat on exit.

## Exec approvals (macOS app)

Sandboxed agents can require per-request approval before `exec` runs on the host.
See [Exec approvals](/tools/exec-approvals) for the policy, allowlist, and UI flow.

## Examples

Foreground:
```json
{"tool":"exec","command":"ls -la"}
```

Background + poll:
```json
{"tool":"exec","command":"npm run build","yieldMs":1000}
{"tool":"process","action":"poll","sessionId":"<id>"}
```

Send keys (tmux-style):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["Enter"]}
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["C-c"]}
{"tool":"process","action":"send-keys","sessionId":"<id>","keys":["Up","Up","Enter"]}
```

Submit (send CR only):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"submit","sessionId":"<id>"}
```

Paste (bracketed by default):
```json
{"tool":"process","action":"paste","sessionId":"<id>","text":"line1\nline2\n"}
```

## apply_patch (experimental)

`apply_patch` is a subtool of `exec` for structured multi-file edits.
Enable it explicitly:

```json5
{
  tools: {
    exec: {
      applyPatch: { enabled: true, allowModels: ["gpt-5.2"] }
    }
  }
}
```

Notes:
- Only available for OpenAI/OpenAI Codex models.
- Tool policy still applies; `allow: ["exec"]` implicitly allows `apply_patch`.
- Config lives under `tools.exec.applyPatch`.
