apps/ios/README.md, before:

# OpenClaw (iOS)

This is an **alpha** iOS app that connects to an OpenClaw Gateway as a `role: node`.

Expect rough edges:

- UI and onboarding are changing quickly.
- Background behavior is not stable yet (foreground app is the supported mode right now).
- Permissions are opt-in and the app should be treated as sensitive while we harden it.

## What It Does

- Connects to a Gateway over `ws://` / `wss://`
- Pairs a new device (approved from your bot)
- Exposes phone services as node commands (camera, location, photos, calendar, reminders, etc; gated by iOS permissions)
- Provides Talk + Chat surfaces (alpha)

## Pairing (Recommended Flow)

If your Gateway has the `device-pair` plugin installed:

1. In Telegram, message your bot: `/pair`
2. Copy the **setup code** message
3. On iOS: OpenClaw → Settings → Gateway → paste setup code → Connect
4. Back in Telegram: `/pair approve`

## Build And Run

Prereqs:

- Xcode (current stable)
- `pnpm`
- `xcodegen`

From the repo root:

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm ios:open
```

Then in Xcode:

1. Select the `OpenClaw` scheme
2. Select a simulator or a connected device
3. Run

If you're using a personal Apple Development team, you may need to change the bundle identifier in Xcode to a unique value so signing succeeds.

## Build From CLI

```bash
pnpm ios:build
```

## Tests

```bash
cd apps/ios
xcodegen generate
xcodebuild test -project OpenClaw.xcodeproj -scheme OpenClaw -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 17"
```

## Shared Code

- `apps/shared/OpenClawKit` contains the shared transport/types used by the iOS app.

Commit message:

feat(ios): auto-select local signing team (#18421)
Merged via /review-pr -> /prepare-pr -> /merge-pr.

Prepared head SHA: bbb9c3aa48a542539dc37136e6542d1f3958f9c2
Co-authored-by: ngutman <1540134+ngutman@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: ngutman <1540134+ngutman@users.noreply.github.com>
Reviewed-by: @ngutman

apps/ios/README.md, after:

# OpenClaw (iOS)

This is an **alpha** iOS app that connects to an OpenClaw Gateway as a `role: node`.

Expect rough edges:

- UI and onboarding are changing quickly.
- Background behavior is not stable yet (foreground app is the supported mode right now).
- Permissions are opt-in and the app should be treated as sensitive while we harden it.

## What It Does

- Connects to a Gateway over `ws://` / `wss://`
- Pairs a new device (approved from your bot)
- Exposes phone services as node commands (camera, location, photos, calendar, reminders, etc; gated by iOS permissions)
- Provides Talk + Chat surfaces (alpha)

## Pairing (Recommended Flow)

If your Gateway has the `device-pair` plugin installed:

1. In Telegram, message your bot: `/pair`
2. Copy the **setup code** message
3. On iOS: OpenClaw → Settings → Gateway → paste setup code → Connect
4. Back in Telegram: `/pair approve`

## Build And Run

Prereqs:

- Xcode (current stable)
- `pnpm`
- `xcodegen`

From the repo root:

```bash
pnpm install
pnpm ios:open
```

`pnpm ios:open` now runs `scripts/ios-configure-signing.sh` before `xcodegen`:

- If `IOS_DEVELOPMENT_TEAM` is set, it uses that team.
- Otherwise it prefers the canonical OpenClaw team (`Y5PE65HELJ`) when that team exists locally.
- If not present, it picks the first non-personal team from your Xcode account (falls back to personal team if needed).
- It writes the selected team to `apps/ios/.local-signing.xcconfig` (local-only, gitignored).

Then in Xcode:

1. Select the `OpenClaw` scheme
2. Select a simulator or a connected device
3. Run

If you're using a personal Apple Development team, you may still need to change the bundle identifier in Xcode to a unique value so signing succeeds.

## Build From CLI

```bash
pnpm ios:build
```

## Tests

```bash
cd apps/ios
xcodegen generate
xcodebuild test -project OpenClaw.xcodeproj -scheme OpenClaw -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 17"
```

## Shared Code

- `apps/shared/OpenClawKit` contains the shared transport/types used by the iOS app.
